as events in Libya loosen Colonel
Gaddafi's grip on power
an old accusation comes back to haunt
him
former henchmen accuse him of ordering a
mass murder over Scotland more than 20
years ago
in 2009 the only man ever convicted the
bombing of Pan Am 103 climbed the steps
of a commercial jet and flew to freedom
doctors had certified that Abdul Basit
mermaid Ali al Megrahi was dying of
prostate cancer and the government of
Scotland had released him on
compassionate grounds
having barely served a month in prison P
each life lost many saw al Megrahi as a
murderer who escaped scot-free I don't
think it's right to show compassion to a
mass murderer like that I think it was
wrong we have been in contact with the
Scottish government in indicating that
we objected to this
the small market town of Lockerbie lies
on the southwest of the Scottish
lowlands not far from the border with
England
in the towns cemetery a memorial garden
records the names of 270 innocent people
mostly Americans who were victims of a
terrorist atrocity 4 George Thompson a
former police detective the biggest mass
murderer in British history remains an
unsolved crime I feel sorry for the
relatives there's been miscarriages of
justice which have taken longer than 20
years to resolve umbrella Tufts this air
of an explanation which is not been
forthcoming today December the 21st 1988
the night of the winter solstice the
longest night of the year at 6:30 p.m.
Pan Am flight 103 took off from London
Heathrow next stop JFK
in the cargo hold was a brown Samsonite
suitcase packed with new clothes and a
Toshiba radio cassette player hidden in
the Toshiba were more than 450 grams of
high explosive and a detonator at three
minutes past 7:30 1,000 feet over
Scotland the bomb exploded 46 and a half
seconds later 200,000 pounds of kerosene
ignited as the wings and part of the
fuselage crashed onto Lockerbie
my son was the second police car on the
scene they saw this explosion in the sky
and bodies on roofs and chimneys
he told me embodies having gone through
gates and been sliced like through a
mincer more than a hundred bodies landed
three miles east of Lockerbie
near the village church of Tunde goth
where there's a small memorial chapel in
any motive case the tentacle stretch out
and touch people and the motive people
who are affected by it is sometimes very
surprising
imagine the enormity of this case
hello party we all made it here finally
all of us wrapped in your spirit and
beauty and splendor of this little spot
of heaven love you
bless you bless you
you
on the morning after the crash human
remains and plane wreckage lay scattered
over 400 square miles of Scottish
landscape
every shard of metal every scrap of
flesh or bone was now a clue in a murder
inquiry
because an American plane had been
brought down over Scotland on a flight
which originated in Germany the
Lockerbie investigation involved three
police forces George Thompson has
obtained copies of three forces
investigative files but according to him
they raised more questions than answers
you know my heart goes out to the police
as well having said that there is
something very wrong at the heart of the
investigation and I think that this has
got to be resolved Sunday it took more
than 10 years and the offer of a four
million dollar reward to bring two of
the alleged perpetrators to justice the
18-month trial took place in a specially
built courthouse in Holland but only
after a long legal standoff between
Britain America and Libya had been
resolved by Scotland's leading judicial
expert I came up with a formula that
would allow a trial to take place under
Scottish Criminal Procedure with a
Scottish prosecutor Scottish defense
counsel and with a Scottish presiding
judge and I also suggested that the
trial should take place in the
Netherlands
the two accused were Abdel Basset al
Megrahi and Lamine Khalifa for him both
had worked for the government of Libya
though our Megrahi always denied he was
an intelligence officer he did travel on
a coded government passport under an
assumed name on one of his frequent
trips to Malta he allegedly bought
clothes that were packed in the same
suitcase as the bomb his co-accused
Mahima was the Libyan Airlines station
manager in Malta according to a CIA
informant al Megrahi arrived in water
with a brown Samsonite suitcase which
for hema carried through customs onto an
Air Malta plane the bag and the bomb in
it would check through to Pan Am flight
at the end of the trial the judges ruled
of the CIA agent was completely
unreliable and acquitted for hema
despite this they found al-megrahi
guilty and sentenced him to 27 years in
prison when his prison in Scotland
al Megrahi maintained his innocence and
launched two Appeals George Thompson was
hired by Al McGraw his legal team to
investigate the case for more than two
years he visited our Megrahi in jail
almost daily but I first met Bassett he
had just been given quite a that said
n'd and he seems to lost lost heart very
quite at the start very dismissive for
anything that we were trying to do but
actually got into the actual evidence
and we were able to assure him that we
could make some progress hizmet changed
I can't possibly say he'll see that
facet McGraw he is not guilty I don't
know that but what I can't see is after
a very careful examination of the
evidence which convicted them there's
massive holes in it there's something
far wrong with it and I think had their
peel been allowed to go ahead all that
kind of evidence would have come out and
I think he would have gone home anyway
on appeal the case against al Megrahi
was assembled from 10,000 tiny scraps of
evidence found in and around the crash
site under Scottish law every piece of
evidence must be signed and
countersigned by two policemen
Scotland's chief law officer the Lord
Advocate was Peter Fraser I think what
reassured the Americans and the police
forces in the FBI was when they really
got their minds around the requirement
under Scots law that everything has to
be corroborated then they felt much more
comfortable that there was going to be a
thorough investigation undertaken by the
police in in Scotland that every single
item of evidence was going to be marked
by two people but according to George
Thompson the correct procedures for
evidence forensics and identification
were too often ignored he believes our
Megrahi was falsely tried I rolled
through the German fails and when you
look closely at some of the stuff and
compare it with the evidence that was
given and caught it's quite revealing as
we shall see a gray shirt found at the
crash site was key evidence the bombs
blast had torn it into four shreds and
left a fragment of the detonator
embedded in its collar I could maybe
show you this is a photograph this is
the pocket fragment of shirt and if you
look at a pocket area it is badly
damaged now if you go to the German copy
it clearly shows that when this piece of
material came into police custody it was
not in that condition it was not damaged
they'll see the ragged edges it's not
good for the graph at all but clearly
shows that it was attacked if that
fragment had been altered for any reason
whatsoever by forensic scientists or by
the police then that would have been
recorded in the forensic notebooks and
hasn't been not only as the shirt shape
changed but someone and we don't know
who has altered one of the evidence tags
well it sees debris that debris had
originally been cloth but had been
changed that there has been changed from
cloth to debiting and that was drier in
court and despite that the judges they
say that defamed that there is nothing
sinister about it however there is
something sinister
well Thompson sees a sinister is the
order in which police have signed the
tag no here's what concerns me if has
claimed this officer here and now
officer they're saying the label when it
was found in the fields and the crash
site how is it that that there we have a
surface of saying his name and then
underneath hood s stroke clade that
short for Strathclyde
that signature there over rates that of
the officer who accepted it there's only
one explanation for that and is that
that officer there saying that label
before he did despite appearances an
expert advised the Scottish criminal
case review commission that this
signature does not overwrite the other
that would be of concern it was proved
that that was had been altered yes I
would be troubled about it unless it was
some inconsequential matter like the to
correct the spelling or ORS or something
like that in the course of the Lockerbie
enquiry police officers asked at least a
hundred and ninety three witnesses to
sign 807
three evidence tags retrospectively if
somebody comes on said I made a mistake
okay accept that or somebody comes along
and says well actually I had to change
it because actually yeah I'd forgotten
the date whatever I got the date wrong
people you get dates from but here there
are too many of those and I think it
either shows an extraordinary lack of
care in fact more in strongly than
normal and that shouldn't be in a case
of this gravity or there's something
else going on
early in 2011 this program took George
Thompson to Malta to re-examine evidence
and witnesses Thomson has come to
believe that the police version of
events is full of holes and he can prove
it
when I was brought into the case I found
a lot of attention with new peds the
actually who had done the law could be
bombing if it wasn't exactly he was up
I felt very strongly that if you're
going to attack me conviction you had
attacked evidence which convicted them
so I took a very very close look at the
clothing evidence
straddling the trade route between Italy
and Libya the Mediterranean island of
Malta has for 5,000 years been a
crossroads for rival the civilizations
hello mr. Navarro hello it's George
stencil gear Thompson checked into one
of Malta as many tourist hotels and
started to follow the trail of evidence
that first brought the police to Malta
the gray shirt was one of several items
of clothing whose labels showed they
were made in Malta and sold in a small
clothes shop the co-owner of the shop
was a certain Tony Gao Qi the most
important single witness in the case
we're now coming down into there
Sliema area we have get you shoppers
just up here on the left hand say does
that your shop
I don't think is there very much no the
shops just on the left hand say T in
fact is cause it's the one that sees
maybes house
to spray on life
on September the 1st 1989 please visit
attorney GAO cheese shop Mary's house
the statement they took from Tony Gao Qi
was to be the most significant in the
entire case for the prosecution
it was around 6:30 p.m. just before
closing time a man had entered the shop
and he started to look at various
garments the man's behavior was strange
that is why I can now remember he asked
for exams jacket and when I asked him
for his size he just said it's not for
me I'm picking out the trousers I asked
him what size and he said more or less
my size It was as if anything I
suggested he buy he would take it Gao Qi
statement includes a detailed list of
what the customer had bought some nine
months earlier and even the exact amount
paid for each item it's remarkable and
his memory just doesn't stop there he
remembers how the mine paid him he says
that he paid them with Maltese tenpo
knows
Thompson first crossed paths with Tony
Gao Qi almost 10 years ago
I came out to Malta in December 2001 and
while I was here I got a call from the
investigation teams who were looking at
the defense of muscle Mecca rocky and
they asked me if I would have a look at
to the goichi
Tony grouches testimony was crucial
anything that we can gouge his
credibility weakened the prosecution
case so posing as a tourist
Thompson paid a visit to marys house as
soon as Thompson entered the shop Gao Qi
noticed he had a Scottish accent
Tony Gao Qi was in the back shot he came
running out almost shouting he are you
from Scotland and when they said yeah he
says I'm very important person in
Scotland how are you important the
Lockerbie case wasn't a case in me
trying to get him to talk to me I had a
bigger job trying to get this stop and
he went on and he he told us quite a lot
to the extent that I reported back to
the team in London and they asked me to
take them improvising as best he could
Thompson concealed an amateur video
camera in a shoulder bag he pushed the
record button before meeting Gao Qi at a
pub called the lady died I went and the
following day with tape equipment
engaged in conversation again I did
quite happily told me about all the
places that police had taken them why
they taking them there was a fire
breathing fire
what Thompson learned from his secret
recording was the tourney Gao Qi had
been on several all expenses paid trips
to Scotland and one very important bet
he said he says that they wanted me to
go back in the car with them to make
sure I was seeing the same things saying
the right things so there was no doubt
at all mr. Gogi was coached if he is
offered trips all expenses paid trips to
Scotland if he is put up in very
expensive hotels if he is taken on
salmon fishing expeditions this seems to
me to go beyond the relationship that I
would expect investigators of a crime
and prosecutors of a crime to have with
one of their witnesses
George Thompson was not the only person
whose conscience was troubled by the
al-megrahi case a scientist by training
John Cameron has for 35 years been the
minister in the Church of Scotland
Nelson Mandela decided to look at the
evidence because he said there was a big
problem with her forensic that this was
this was a miscarriage of justice
Mandela was a lawyer anyway and he
approached the Scottish Church and they
asked him to look into this and I wrote
a four thousand word report on this
the focus of dr. Cameron's report was
the science the report said that the ear
accident investigators I'd pretty much
cracked the case
within the first few months they knew
from pretty early on that there was a
bomb had been placed in the forward
luggage hold
they were able to find the remains of
round Samsonite case in which the bomb
was contained the even found fragments
of the Toshiba cassette recorder in
which the bomb had been housed
Donn's concealed in a Toshiba and other
electronic devices have been found in
Germany two months before the crash that
October police rounded up members of the
Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine general command these
ingenious and deadly devices were
activated by a barometric trigger
pflp-gc extremists had already bombed
three planes using barometric triggers
say they were seen as the likeliest
suspects but then the whole direction of
the investigation changed government
forensic scientists said they discovered
this embedded in the collar of a gray
shirt it was a fragment of circuit board
and it suggested that the bomb was
triggered not by a barometric views but
by an electronic timer the fragment was
part of a timer made by a Swiss firm
called me bow it was the identification
of this fragment of circuit board as
belonging to a mobile timer the majority
of which the vast majority of which were
supplied to Libya battle according to
the prosecution led them first to focus
their attention on Libya before then the
attention of the investigators the
investigating team had been on
Palestinian groups and not on the
Libyans Libya had imported Toshiba
radios for its domestic market so it was
plausible that a Toshiba radio bomb with
amiibo timer could also have been
assembled by Libyans this tiny fragment
of timer was the crucial evidence that
were said to link Libya and ultimately
al Megrahi to the Pan Am atrocity
in 1999 the FBI and the Federal Aviation
Administration conducted a series of
tests to replicate the explosion in the
Pan Am jet any scientific test has got
to be represented exploded different
bombs like that to see what what
happened experts were later able to
establish that fragments of circuit
board or a timer could survive an
explosion and not be vaporized in the
blast but the work of the British
forensic scientist dr. Thomas Hayes left
one huge question about the fragment of
the timer unanswered this is a slight
problem for the prosecution because he's
had they hadn't tested the fragment to
see the if it had if it was had any
residue from the explosion he hadn't
thought this is important apparent
alterations to the evidence tag raised
major questions about who found the
timer fragment and when the labeling was
very weird and they his name appears
that in various positions and police
names seem to overwrite it or underwrite
it and it looks as if he did some
experimental work on this fabulous
fragment before it was actually ever
discovered which was really pretty
amazing dr. Thomas Hayes also altered
the forensic logbook in which he
recorded the days he discovered the time
of fragment it was obvious from his log
when he presented this log to the court
to sure that they was done in the 12th
of May the looks as if that he didn't
set at a page in his log because all the
pages right after it had to be
remembered now this is from a scientific
point of view highly unsatisfactory
there's no conclusive proof that Hayes
inserted the page but to John Cameron
it's the inevitable conclusion at
evidence log is supposed to be an
evidence log it's supposed to go
straight through
you can't go adding pages wouldn't work
when you feel it might be helpful and
this is what he's it done
the mystery thickens Hayes swore on oath
that the date on which he dissected the
collar and discovered the timer fragment
was May the 12th 1989 Thompson's
evidence contradicts their claim we have
recovered from the German fellows
documentation which shows that the
Germans were being told that this piece
of fragment here was a cover from a
slalom shot on the 22nd of January 1990
not only that but the United States
Department of Justice wrote our letter
and in that letter and the statement of
facts they tell the Swiss authorities
that that was found an Islamic chart on
the 22nd of January 1990 the finding of
the fragment a circuit board is a major
problem because the Germans say it was
found at one time I think it was say in
January of 1990 but Hayes was the claim
at the trial that it that he had found
it and had done working on in May of
1989 so the whole thing kind of stinks I
mean is there something going on here
it's an unheard-of situation I've never
had a case where you've had one side of
saying what it was found in and nine
months before others say it was found
somebody still in lies either they're
telling lies about they've been found on
the 12th of May 1980 main order telling
lies I've ever been found on the 22nd of
January 1990 it can't be thrown twice
it's the fragment of timer found in the
collar of the gray shirt that's supposed
to link our Megrahi to the bomb this is
the same gray shirt for which one of the
evidence labels has been altered the
same gray shirt that unaccountably
changes shape in the Scottish and German
police files in his first statement of
the police Tony Gao Qi lists the clothes
he says he sold to the mysterious
customer in Mary's house
two pairs of trousers three pairs of
pajamas one umbrella one bagel and one
cardigan now there's a problem there
because not included and that bless the
clothing they claims to have sold as a
gray slalom shirt in fact couches first
please statement makes no mention of any
shirt gray or otherwise in January 1990
Gao Qi was questioned again about the
shirt by Detective Chief Inspector Henry
woods Bell and by Detective Constable
John Crawford
both declined to be interviewed for this
program he's showing this fragment yet I
will show you that but then he says a
very interesting thing he sees that time
when the man came I am sure I bet time
when the man came I am sure I did not
sell him a shirt and it repeats out
later on it reinforces that he says that
man didn't buy any shirts for sure that
man didn't buy any shirts for sure on
the 10th of September 1990 Tony Gao Qi
made another statement to DCI Bell and
to Detective Sergeant Pat Bern Bern
hasn't responded to approaches from this
program by now something had jogged Tony
gouges memory and listen to what he says
here about three weeks ago I was
cleaning boxes out in the shop and I
know remember that the man who bought
the clothing also bought a beach slalom
shirt and a blue and white stripe shoved
in the original handwritten statement
please sergeant Byrne has crossed out
the word beige a transcript shows that
the word beige has disappeared from the
text fed into the police computer but
this is contradicted by the Maltese
police statement which keeps the word
beige the shirt of course was supposed
to be a grey man shirt
new research raises even more profound
questions about the evidence that links
al-megrahi to the gray shirt what he
does see in his evidence to the court
was that the green slalom shot which he
sold was a size 16 and a half
42 shut has a 16 and a half collar also
known as a size 42 if the collar size of
the gray shirt was 16 and a half it
could only be an adult man's shirt but
Thompson has discovered a witness who
contradicts this smaller we're going to
try and face a man called 20 Khurana
was one of the shocked manufacturers way
back in 1990 we think we're going to be
able to track us unknown to a shoe shop
and the later and that's what were
heading just there
you
in 1990 the man Thompson has come to see
made a statement of Detective Constable
John Crawford which was not introduced
at the trial as a car alarm you
expressed an opinion at the came up both
the side of the shuttle without pinion
wars yes I still remember vividly my
personal view is that front of the shirt
happens to be a boy's shirt
yes it's literally what about the pocket
size did that mean anything to you it
was a very tight pocket small pocket
which go which fits a boy's shirt if
with a men's shirt the pocket would be
wider you can put in a pack of
cigarettes or I think you mentioned out
yelling because yes maybe
and I still confirmed and I spoke
inferring that so there's no doubt and
you remained what's it ever and what you
told the police are way back in 1990 was
that in your opinion and then what
they'll show you and what you're shown a
photograph of to be and more is in fact
a boy shirt yes I still I'm still of
that opinion that happens to be a boy
shirt okay thank you
I'd be clear of land like it
Thompson has found the name of another
witness who was also interviewed about
the shirt by Detective Constable
Crawford
hi there general we have told Reuters
please
okay that's the hops
the next witness used to supply shirts
to the GAO cheese shop never got his
1990 please statement was not introduced
at the trial when I came the last time
we showed you a photograph of a fragment
of shaft and you say the rather
interesting thing and that you thought
it was a boy shirt can you tell me why
you thought it was a boy shop well I
thought it was a voice shared mainly for
two things one because of the size of
the pocket of the pocket here and the
placket was also very narrow it was
almost the width of a lady's blouse can
you point in her pocket or not the
placket is the piece in front
generally it's interlined not as narrow
generally a standard men's shirt is
about 34 millimeters when that was about
to enter five and that would be on this
fragment piece here yes it is so same
thing here I'm going to way back to 1990
can you remember a Scottish police
detective coming to see it maybe along
with Maltese officers and they would
show you but the actual piece of shirt
yes I remember I remember seeing the
fabric and at that time you told them
that you thought it was a boy shot yes
that that's good okay
as you can see the f.2d we start right
by the story
and that he can save her some certainty
that what he has there is a voice shot
and you know the risk of boring you you
can't describe just how important that
is
it's crucial to the case that breaks the
chain completely
Michael Mansfield is one of the great
English defense lawyers and he said that
if there's a miscarriage of justice it
will be in two areas
fortunately witness identification and
the other on corrupt forensic evidence
and one of the main issues in Lockerbie
in fact for me the main issue in
Lockerbie and it's the only basis really
upon which the the remaining conviction
stood was identification
Ian McKee has long experience of
Scottish police procedures he served for
30 years in the force rising to the rank
of Superintendent I could not tell you
how worried I am about the
identification evidence and the
Lockerbie case it's central to the
success of their prosecution and it's
totally fraud for beginning to end the
evidence that convicted al Megrahi goes
back to Mary's house and to Tony gouges
description of the mysterious Libyan who
came shopping one evening gouges
statement was taken on September the 1st
1989 by Detective Chief Inspector Henry
woods Bell in the first statement he
displayed lung has been 6 foot or more
and hate goichi went on to see he had a
big chest and a large head his hair was
very black he was speaking Libyan to me
he was speaking Libyan to me he was from
Libya according to Thompson an unknown
hand has altered gouges statement the
phrase about the customer being from
Libya has been added later in smaller
handwriting and darker ink 12 days later
Gao Qi went to a Maltese police station
to help with a photo fit of the suspect
Gao Qi added new detail to his
description he said the man was about
fifty years of age and about 16 and a
half or 17 inch collar
I think the easiest thing to do is to
show you the result of the artists
impression and that Kimo it's made to me
mr. Megrahi yeah and what are the
differences one simple difference it
looks nothing like them
the broad-shouldered six feet tall
dark-skinned 50 year old man bears
little resemblance to the five feet
eight inch light skinned 37 year old al
Megrahi in the course of the next few
months
Gao Qi was asked to view photographs of
suspects a number of times
going back to witnesses time and time
again should not be allowed and the
court should not allow the fasiq she
should not allow it because what happens
is that trash has put on the pressure to
identify someone pressure to if you like
solve a crime and eventually I think
most witnesses will crumble under light
it was not until fifteen months after
his first police statement when Gao Qi
was showing this photo array that he
finally made a positive identification
but the procedure followed by detectives
Bell and Crawford has been criticized
what is alleged have happened is that
Gao Qi and said the all Luke younger and
if you see his statement here this would
appear to be where it comes in he says
the first impression I had was that all
the photographs were of Maine younger
than the man who bought the clothing I
told mr. rebellious I was asked to look
at all the photographs carefully and to
try and allow for the any age
differences what we sensed them was
consider if they're maybe 15 years older
how would they look that's a clear
breach of identification procedures it
was only after he'd been asked to
imagine these men were 15 years older
that Gao Qi went through the pictures
face by face until he picked out photo
number 8 Abdel Basset al Megrahi he was
obviously caught by the police and no
one has denying that I mean it was quite
obviously he'd been spoken to by
detectors and a number of times before
he
the identification it seems obvious as
well he wasn't sure and he certainly all
the increases it came towards at the
time for Court
that evidence is totally valueless and
unfortunately it's critical it's a long
time since the locals have seen Gao Qi
and his favorite hangout on water it's
widely believed that in return for the
evidence he gave in court
Gao Qi has backed his share of the
reward money and moved abroad yeah I
usually come here a lot this lad here
told me off-camera that only was Sam
he'd gone to Australia but we wouldn't
see anything in camera you may have the
money if it was lost I think he's lost
her today
when Thompson drove past gotchas
last-known address there was no sign of
the man but an expensive sports car was
parked in the drive under Scottish law
witnesses can't be offered reward money
Lester taint their evidence but the
American government had posted a four
million dollar reward for information
leading to an arrest
next time Thompson drove past he
glimpsed a gray-haired man in a red polo
shirt he certainly looked like out you
on the third drive pass Thompson spotted
the same man
being driven off in a green car there's
him
Thompson tailed the car because he
wanted Gao Qi to confirm or deny reports
that the US Department of Justice paid
him two million dollars
but then the green car spotted our
camera and the next stop was a police
station
as he climbed the stairs Thompson got a
good look at him
George was that him definitely yes
I'm no 200% sure because I've just been
questioned by the police last why I'm
interested to Noguchi mr. Gao Qi
declines to be interviewed for this
program Scottish police maintained that
Gao Qi showed no interest in any reward
money before the trial but Scotland's
criminal case Review Commission found
that extracts from Detective Chief
Inspector Bell's diary
cast a new light on that claim the
Diaries appear to suggest that mr. Gao
Qi was interested in monetary
compensation and that indications were
given to him that money was available it
was flawed from top to bottom it seems
as if goichi was coached and his
evidence and he was given money for his
errors identification 11 flight has got
no value at all all I can say is I had
made it very clear I was tried to
express earlier that we were very
conscious that the eyes of the world
would be on us and it would not look
good if there was any suggestion that
there was any reward money or any
further he certainly wasn't motivated by
that
George Thompson's dogged detective work
has raised many new questions about the
prosecution of Abdel Basset al Megrahi
dear Tony Gauci sell any shirts at all
to the mysterious shopper
if he sold a shirt was it beige I was it
great
was it a man's shirt or a boy's shirt
when was the time of fragment found in
the shirts collar was it January 1990 or
May 1989 why did the forensic scientists
who swore it was May change the page
numbers in his log why did the policeman
who should have signed the evidence
label first seemed to sign it last why
was the word on the evidence label
change
and when the debris was found to contain
the fragment of the timer why was it
never tested for explosive residue from
prison sailors in Holland and Scotland
al-megrahi spent eight years trying to
win the right to appeal against his
conviction he bettered letters entered
the fact that people thought that he
could have carried out a crime like the
doning of that aircraft particularly v
children working to them and I've seen
him sitting crying and the visit and
just desperation how could you do this
to me why people will think I am a mud
better al-megrahi did finally win the
right to appeal but his case was never
heard diagnosed with cancer and given
months to live
al Megrahi dropped his appeal the next
week he was released from prison on
compassionate grounds at the airport
prison officer shook how McGraw his hand
he'd been well liked in jail and no one
there believed he was really guilty
al-megrahi flew home to libya and a
hero's welcome Scottish authorities
denied they'd made dropping his appeal a
condition of his release but when he did
abandon his appeal it meant that the
full story of how al Megrahi case was
conducted may never be heard in court
all exposed to public scrutiny the
criminal justice system in Scotland has
lost its honour because of McGraw his
conviction personally I think the case
will go on and on and on as cases do the
truth will always come out in the end
sometimes we have to wait a rather long
time so many of the Americans seem
outraged that he didn't die within three
months I'm glad he didn't I'm glad he
had time with his family
because it was clearly innocent it was
clearly a miscarriage of justice
what still haunts George Thompson about
the Lockerbie case is this if his
evidence is right then those who bombed
Pan Am 103 and killed 270 innocent
victims still walk free
14 years old they never forget never
forgive
you